# REMOTE-SHELL-USING-SOCKET-PROGRAMMING
This project consists of writing a C program for a remote shell system.It involves a  Server  and  a  Client  process.  The server  process  resides  on  another  machine  on  the network  and  the  user  provides  commands  to  the  server  via  a  client  process  on  a  local machine. The client sends the commands to the server, the server executes them, and sends the output back to the client.The goal of this project is to practice some system calls and process management by the operating system.In addition, it reinforces the operating system support for client server  programming  using  sockets. You  will  write  a  basicremote  shellin  which  a  user specifies an arbitrary shell command to be executed, and it is sent over socket connectionand executed on a remote server.
Note: use connection-oriented communication (socket programming using TCP))You will write a server and a clientprogram:Server:The server will run on the remote machine. ▪It  will  bind  to  a TCPsocket  at  a  port  known  to  the  client and  waits  for  a Connection Request from Client.▪When  it  receives  a  connection,  itforksa  child  process  to  handle  thisconnection.The Server must handle multiple clients at a time.▪The parent process loops back to wait for more connections.▪The  child  process executes  the  given  shell  command(received  from  the client), returning allstdoutandstderrto the client.(Hence, the server will notdisplay the output of the executed command)▪The server can assume that the shell command does not usestdin.Client:The clientwill run on the local machine.▪From  the  command  line,  the  user  will  specify  the  host(where  the  server resides)and the command to be executed.▪The client will then connect to the server via a TCP socket.▪The Client sendsthe commandto the server.▪The client will display any output received from the server to thestdout.▪After displaying the output, the client waits for next command from the user. ▪The client will notclose/exit until the user enters “quit” command.
Creating a Child ProcessAt Server side, for each incoming client, a child process is forked which executes the command received from the client.The  separate  child  process  is  created  using  the  fork()  system  call,  and  the  user’s command is executed using one of the system calls in the exec() family.Note:(The example below is one way of doing this, you are welcometodo it your own way!)This will require parsing the commandinto separate tokens and storing the tokens in an array of character strings, sayargs.For example, if the commandentered at the prompt is:ps -aelthe values stored in the args array are:args[0] = "ps" args[1] = "-ael" args[2] = NULLThis args array will be passed to the execvp() function, which has the following prototype:execvp(char *command, char *params[]);Here,  command represents the command to be performed  and params stores the parameters to this command. For this project, the execvp() function should be invoked as execvp(args[0], args). Remember: In this project, the command is entered on Client!
